who really like to do documentation ?
yeah, this is exactly what I thought

We have so many tools that it's make so very easy to write code

Did you write the documentation for this thing ?

the first thing is
There is a plethora of documentation format : so which one do we pick ?
do we go with HTML ? maybe
XML is not the way to go
Docbook is XML based but tbat's ok

The other thing is tooling support.
What if do you start to use an office tool ?
Can you refactor the documentation ?
Can you do a simple diff of the documentation ?

Can you follow almost the same workflow that you have when writing code ?

This is a resaon why a group of people created a new kind of format Asciidoc.

Asciidoc is not really that new. It's ten years old. It's being around for a while. It's Python based but there is a bright new tools out there, ruby based.
There are ways to run this things inside the JVM and this is Asciidoctor.

so here is an example.
this is just plain text
you see a couple of annotations
the first thing is just the title
then we have a paragraph 
then we have an other section 

that basic text file was transform to HTML 

HTML is just one of the many target formats that you can transform asciidoc to.

the main project is asciidoctor, implemented in Ruby
there is an other project called AsciidoctorJ which is a wrapper on top of plain asciidoctor using JRUby
And from there we can construct any other tools based on the JVM that consumes asciidoctorJ and in this case we have a maven plugin and a gradle plugin

you can also run Asciidoctor throught Javascript, Ruby has a transpiler call Opal. Opal transforms Ruby code into Javascript code so you can run Asciidoctor on the browser or anywhere that Javascript can be run.
There are also a Chrome extension and a Firefox addon

An other thing I like about Asciidoctor as an implementation of AsciiDoc is the output format processor.
What Asciidoctor is actually doing is generated an AST of your document 
this is a very power full feature	

groovy golo and ceylon languages used Asciidoc for their documentation

I'm a book author